In the end of the last video we saw that when we called our constructor function we did not return anything.
The entire purpose of a constructor function is to construct objects.
So when we call the function we'd really like to have a new object be created.
Unfortunately that's not happening right now.
But the good news is we can fix our problems by using the new keyword when we use the new keyword.
Everything magically works.
The first house variable is now an object with the bedrooms bathrooms and some square feet property.
Let's see just exactly what the new keyword does.
Just like the key word this understanding with the new keyword does can be quite tricky.
But review the slides.
Remember these rules and most importantly try coding a couple examples that will really help your retention
of the material.
We see that the new keyword is being used with a function.
In fact it must be used with a function or else he'll get a tiger.
Let's see why that's the case.
By examining what the new keyword does first it creates an empty object out of thin air.
It then sets the value of the keyword.
This in the function which is being used with to be that empty object that was just created.
Third it adds an implicit return.
This at the end of the function so that the object created using the new keyword can be returned from
the function.
Finally and this one is the most tricky.
It adds a property on the empty object which can be accessed using a double underscore prototype double
underscore this double underscore is commonly called Dunder.
So this property is also known as Dunder protip the Dunder Prato property links the object that was
just created to the prototype property on the constructor function.
That last sentence may have seemed like a blur but don't worry too much.
For now we're going to go over it in painstaking detail.
For now let's practice making a constructor function for a dog.
Each dog should have a name and age as a bonus.
Add a function for each dog called Ark which cancelled out logs the name of the dog added to the string
just barked pause the video and try this out.
So what did you come up with.
Hopefully that looks something like this.
Here we have a constructor function for a job.
This function accepts two parameters name and age.
Remember you can name your parameters anything since we want to attach properties onto the objects that
we will create called name and age.
We should probably name our parameters the same thing for readability inside of the function where setting
properties on the keyword this equal to the value of what is passed into the function as well as adding
a function called Bark onto the keyword this which canceled out logs the first name property concatenated
with the string.
Just barked on the next lines.
We're creating two variables.
Rusty and Feydeau and setting them equal to the value of the dog constructor being invoked with the
new keyboard.
Remember none of this works if we don't use the new keyword.
Now before we recap with the new keyword does pause the video and see if you can remember any of the
four things that the new keyword does.
First it creates an empty object out of thin air.
Second it then sets the value of the Q word.
This in the function which it is being used with to be that empty object that was just created.
Third it adds an implicit return.
This at the end of the function so that the object created using the new keyword can be returned from
the function.
Fourth it adds the Dunder Prato property onto the object that was just created.
In this video we examined how to use the keyword new to create objects from constructor functions.
We learned about the forth things that the new keyword does which I highly encourage you to review because
we will be covering this in much more depth and knowing the fundamentals is essential.
In the next video we're going to talk about using more than one constructor function and how we can
refactor our code to make it even cleaner even.